Welcome back.
Welcome to our favorite function.
Once again the same my name function that runs find my name that runs print name.
And then finally prints the name.
Now there's another piece to the puzzle.
There is another part of the execution context that we have not discussed.
And I know I know.
Seems like a lot but trust me once you get this stuff and I know I'm repeating a lot of things but by
repetition we should have this ingrained in our brains for the rest of our career.
So bear with me.
I know I say execution context a thousand times in a video but hopefully I'll stick to you even though
you might get a little bit annoyed with me.
Now this other piece of the puzzle when it comes to the execution context that we haven't discussed
yet is that each world that is each context has a link to its outside world.
Or a link to its parent and this outer environment depends on where the function sits lexical.
We know that word right lexicon early means where the function is written.
So let's figure out what that means in here.
If I created a new variable let's call it variable X that equals x all of these functions fine name
print name Say my name is going to be able to access this variable this global variable if I run console
dialog X here in fine name even though fine name gets added to the stack at the very end.
If I run this I don't get any errors.
I have access to X all of these functions have access to the global scope let's see how this works in
a diagram all of these functions have a global lexical environment that is they're written in the global
space to not inside of another function just on the main page they just get attached to the window object
or the global object.
So all these functions have their own variable environment they have access to each their own variables
but they also have this little link what we call a scope chain and this scope chain links and gives
us access to variables that are in our parent environment.
In this case the global environment.
So when we assigned a variable x to x when I ran print name console log X it first looks in the variable
environment and only sees the variable C here and says Hmmm I can't really find this year let me go
up the scope chain or in this case down the scope chain and see if it's attached to my global lexical
environment and it finds the x variable all the way down here off the screen and is able to console
log X again if we go back to our code console log X works because well we can go down the scope chain
the JavaScript engine is going to say Alright I have variable b but I don't have variable X let me go
into my parent environment and I see X here I can log it and by the way in the diagram the console log
was here in the print name but it's the same thing it's going to work both ways.
Now what I just demonstrated to you is called scope or static scope to be exact.
Remember this phrase that we saw before in JavaScript are lexical scope that is available data variables
where the function was defined determines are available variables that means variables in our local
environment or variable environment and it doesn't really matter where the function is called No matter
where the function is on the execution stack what matters is where the function is written and there's
an interesting characteristic of that right this idea of lexical scope which is also called static scope
in a language means that only by looking at the source code we can determine which environment the variables
in data are available in and that's what the compiler does the javascript compiler looks at the code
and attaches all these scope chains before it even runs the code how cool is that because we have lexical
scope we know what environments are linked to each other and we know what data can be accessed by which
function and the scope chain starts where the variable is defined and goes all the way down to the global
context to see if the variable exists so that's what scope means.
Scope is hey where can I access that variable where's that variable in my code.
Let's take this example a little bit further.
Let's say I have a new function.
Well it still does the same thing but it's written lexical me in a different way if I run say my name
here and I invoke this function and I click Run I get.
Function fine name.
That is because when I run this function well it returns this part of the code which is function find
my name so using that logic let's invoke this function once again by adding another curly bracket remember
this gets turned into the fine name function and this fine name function.
I'm going to invoke it with a curly bracket and let's remove this console lock because we don't need
it right now.
If I click Run I get.
Function print name.
All right.
So I'm here now.
It's returned this part.
Let's run this function again.
I'm going to add another curly bracket.
And again we're just using whatever the JavaScript engine does to run our function.
If I click Run Hurray we've got the same result as last time.
But as you can see here these are all left sickly scoped different than before right previously.
All these functions had global lexical environments.
What do they have now if you were the JavaScript engine and you are looking at this code you haven't
even run this code.
How would you link the chains together.
Well it will look something like this instead of having the links like this.
You'd have them like this what we call a function lexical environment that is find a name is written
inside of say my name.
Function so find names function lexical environment is say my name and print names function lexical
environment is find a name.
So the scope chain goes down like this.
So that hypothetically print name has access to be and a fine name has access to be and a let's test
the set.
If I go to print name I can console all log C and if I run this awesome I get C.
That's great.
What if I console log B according to the diagram I have that scope chain where I can access the parent
environment.
So if I run this Hey look at that it works.
What about a if I run this beautiful.
So by running console dialogue eh I'm going up the scope chain saying hey is a here.
No don't have it.
Keep looking and then going up the scope chain to say my name says Hey do you have a here.
Yep I have it.
Here you go.
What if I remove this and instead use it here.
Can I look for a.
If I run this.
Yep I can look right.
But what about see.
No I get a reference error.
C is not defined.
Why is that.
Well if we go to the diagram C is up over here and when I do console log in fine name it's going to
look in the variable environment says no no C here.
Keep looking and then it's going to go into there.
Say my name's variable environment says Hey a C here.
No.
Keep looking.
And then it goes into the global environment says hey is C there.
No so it gives us a reference error.
I have no idea what you're talking about.
You're doing something strange here.
I'm going to throw an error this principle in Javascript is going to be used throughout the course and
it's very very important.
So if you need to watch this video again go ahead and do it.
But I hope you get this point in this video.
We learned that the global scope is the outer most scope so variables declared outside a function are
in what we call global scope and they can be accessed in any other scope that is inside of the functions.
We can always access global scope now local scope that is any scope that is local to a function.
Now variables declared in this local scope are accessible within this scope as well as any scopes surrounding
and that's all scope is.
It just defines the accessibility of variables and functions in the code.
It tells us what we can access while we can not and just as a little refresher.
Remember undefined is an actual type in JavaScript undefined when we get something undefined.
It means yes we have this variable but it's not assigned anything right now versus something like a
reference there says hey this is completely on declare scope chain can't find anything by the way back
to the slide.
Remember I told you that if val and the with statement are not a good idea it doesn't help our JavaScript
engine optimize our code well it's because of the issues that it has with scope because with Val and
width you can actually change how scope and scope change work internally in JavaScript and that makes
things difficult for us because we have lexical scope.
The compiler can just look at our code and create the scope chain and understand what's going to happen.
But if we start changing those around with something like Val it's going to trick the JavaScript engine
and it might have to do optimize some of our code.
All right let's take a break and I'll see you in the next video.
Bye bye.